we've ascended to a higher plane of
existence because our thumbnails now
have physics andrew made a physics
simulation for our gpu bottlenecking
thumbnail which is what we're
showing today the 10600k got our strong
recommendation for gaming focused builds
that don't need to stretch as far
as a 10 900k which often ends up at
about the same place as a 10 600k
in most games not all applications but a
lot of games you'll end up in about the
same place
so with that known now and with the r3
3300x previously benchmarked for gpu
bottlenecks with this same approach
we're now looking at when the 10600k
stops making sense
as a pair with different gpus so we're
testing from the 2080 ti at the top end
down to some of the mid-range cards like
a 5600 xt for example or a 2060 ko
and we also have one set of benchmarks
with a 5.1 gigahertz overclock on the 10
600k
and a 48x cache ratio just to see
if it changes at all especially at the
lower resolutions before that this video
is brought to you by the be
quiet purebase 500 dx the purebase 500
dx is a new push from v
quiet into mesh fronted cases that are
more thermally focused
the 500dx maintains high build quality
and attention to detail for its dust
filters front panel installation and fan
placement and still has additional focus
on noise control
the case comes with three 140mm pure
wayne's two-fan stock
and has rgb leds but with a physical
hardware switch for easy control
learn more about the be quiet purebase
500 dx at the link in the description
below
so the testing today it ranges from
1080p up to 4k we've got 1440 in there
as well typically we do 1080 and 1440
for our cpu reviews
cpu reviews are dialed in a way with the
games chosen and the settings chosen
that what we're looking for obviously is
a cpu
scale so what we want to know is top to
bottom how much difference is there from
one cpu to the next
without chopping off the top end of
performance too much now eventually with
something like a 10 900k
it starts to get hard to avoid that gpu
limitation where the cpus are getting so
good and so
fast at what they're doing that you have
to either find new ways to show a
difference
or you have to kind of settle and say
well this is
about the limit for what real world is
this is already medium settings 1080p
what more do you want so that's the
challenge we ran into with the 10
the 10 900k and you can watch our
reviews for more information on that and
where we circumvented it and where we
couldn't circumvent it and just called
it real world
today though the 10600k is
one of the better cpus the best cpu for
gaming we think even though the 10900k
technically has a lead the 10600k
achieves most of that lead
with an overclock in realistic scenarios
and even in unrealistic
scenarios where you mostly cpu
constrained you're still talking
a high core count high thread count cpu
hyper threading now
high frequencies the games they're not
like blender where it'll just scale
infinitely with threads
so the 10 6 is pretty good now again we
did this with the 3300x previously but
we're doing 1080 through 4k
today this is using our cpu methodology
games
but with our gpu methodology graphics
settings so you'll have to look at the
chart titles to see what the graphics
settings are they're different they
can't be cross compared with the results
from the cpu reviews because we're using
different graphics settings explicitly
to stress
the gpu in this benchmark to see at what
point it stops scaling
and finally as a note 2 if you're more
interested in competitive high fps games
you might turn your graphics down or you
play games that are
natively low graphics quality like cs go
or dota to begin with
then what you're really looking for is a
cpu benchmark not a gpu bottleneck
benchmark
because in most of those instances
you're talking about high single thread
load
high frequency demand and that'll show
better in the cpu reviews than in this
content which this is more
for someone who likes to crank the
graphics settings as high as is
reasonably permissible
by the hardware that they have rather
than trying to get
240 fps for example so that's what we're
looking at let's get into the benchmarks
shadow of the tomb raider at 1080p high
has the 10600k
maxing out at 172 fps average with the
cpu
and the cash ratio overclock that allows
it a lead over the 10600k stock results
163 fps average
of about 5.8 percent that's a measurable
repeatable difference and it shows that
the 10600k is limiting the 2080 ti
even with the higher graphics settings
at 1080p for stock results the 10600k
2080 ti
ends up close to the 8086k5 gigahertz
result in this game
from our standard gpu bench and the
hardware used for that
more appropriately though the 10600k is
able to fully leverage the 2070 super
and everything below it that include a
2080 super
as well but we didn't test it here
obviously though that falls between the
capped
and the uncapped results and you can
extrapolate as needed
the 2070 super is led by 21 by the 2080
ti result
which is getting truncated at 1080p and
that's with the 10600k stock cpu
so there's still a meaningful uplift
with a 2080 ti but the 2080 super would
get you
most of the way there and you wouldn't
be throwing away performance that's
not being leveraged on the gpu pairing
with a 2080 ti with a 10
600k would still scale with these lower
demanding or
lower resolution titles but it wouldn't
commonly be worth it unless you're
either going to tune your 10600k or
you're going to be playing more
intensive games that will be
benchmarking momentarily
if you're going for higher speed ram
higher cash ratio and a core overclock
you're still able to tap more
performance than afforded on lower end
hardware that said
a 1200 2080 ti has never really felt
particularly good to buy to begin with
for a gaming system at 1440p the
bottleneck obviously shifts towards the
gpu in a more serious capacity
the 10600k stock result averaged 127fps
which is tied with the 10 600k 5.1
gigahertz 48x
oc result that said the 5.1 gigahertz
result had marginally more consistent
frame times
but it's barely outside of error for 0.1
percent lowest wins
further the difference is one that is
measurable but imperceptible to the
player you're not going to notice it
in other words they're the same
overclocking didn't help us unlock more
performance because we're already bound
by the gpu
so we'd have to overclock that as well
or wait for a 3000 series card
the 2080 ti stock 10600k result leads
the 2070 super is 95fps average by 34
percent here
so the gap has grown as a result of
reduced cpu load
and a result of the increased demand on
bandwidth the 5700xc is just behind the
2070 super
the 2080 super would sit between these
and the 2080 ti
clearly and the 2060 and down will be
more limiting than the cpu would be
here's 4k
if there were any doubt that we were gpu
bound now it's clear
the 2080 ti runs at 75 fps average with
its stock
and oc numbers leading the 2070 super by
if you're going to be playing at higher
resolutions and higher graphics settings
and particularly if you're not chasing
ultra high fps for competitive games
the cpu doesn't hold the same weight as
the gpu
that shifts if you start targeting
higher frame rate or care more about
non-gaming workloads but here you could
buy
any of these cards and be fully against
the limit of the card not the 10600k
total war 3 kingdoms and the battle
benchmark comes up next at 1080p
our maximum frame rate was 115 fps
average on the 10 600k
the average between stock and
overclocked is the same but the lows
again show
favor towards the overclock we'll look
at frame times on a different plot in a
moment to help illustrate this
the best result for the 10600k and the
2080 ti leads the 2070 super
by about 38 which is about as much
scaling as you'll get out of these parts
with ultra settings we're almost
completely gpu bound
up until at least to 2080 ti and we'd
need something better to release
at least in the gaming class to see more
than that frame times aren't too heavily
affected but we can show a difference
for sake of education mostly this is
what it looks like remember that frame
time plots are the closest empirical
measurement of frame to frame feeling
of gameplay for the player a 16.67
millisecond frame time as
example would calculate out to a 60 fps
rate
but the question of over what period
you're averaging
begins to make this abstraction from the
base metric of time sort of a funny
question
the overclocked result doesn't spike as
high as frequently as the 10600k stock
result does
which is why that difference became
visible in the average one percent
and 0.1 worst frames of all captured at
1440p the results show a massive 42
lead by the 2080 ti over the 2070 super
showing that you could buy
up to a 2080 ti and be fully leveraged
on the gpu
and also fully leveraged on your
finances the 2070 super
or as an uncharted middle step that you
could easily approximate
the 2080 super would both make good
sense here
in this particular chart the 5700 xt
trails the 2070 super
but that's not true in all tests so at
that point you're asking for a gpu
benchmark we'll switch to the opposite
style of game f1 2019 runs at high frame
rates even with
ultra settings so the cpu does matter
more here than it does in most of the
other higher
graphics setting games like tomb raider
for example at 1080p
ultra the 5.1 gigahertz 48x result has
the 2080 ti solution at 206 fps average
which is about the same as the 206 fps
average of the stock 10 600k and 2080 ti
one note that the 2080 ti extreme result
for the 8086k is for a different video
card we use the xc ultra for our 10600k
gpu bottleneck benchmarks but it's just
there for reference
we see some more scaling with that
combination but that's strictly there
for
the reference point to our gpu bench
hardware which is different from our cpu
bench hardware
that said there's a bit more to it that
we'll discuss in a moment
the 2080 ti leads the 2070 super result
by 32
here which is a noteworthy leap for a
1080p result
the 2080 super would fall between these
and would be fully leveraged by the cpu
so
anything below the 2080 ti avoids a hard
cpu bottleneck
and the 2080 ti often avoids one as well
it just depends on the resolution and
the graphics
the difference between the 8086k 2060 ko
results and the 10 600k
ko result we think is related to in
silicon mitigations between the two
revisions of 14 nanometer silicon the 5
gigahertz frequency of the 8086k is a
potential difference as well obviously
but given that we're still gpu bound
first we're thinking that mitigation
is the most likely first impact to the
delta
at 1440p the 2080 ti the 2070 super gap
is 37
widening from the previous 32 result
thanks to the increased pixel processing
load and
the memory bandwidth requirements at
higher resolutions the 10 600k does
limit the 2080 ti a bit here
but we're in a gpu bound scenario now so
most results including one percent lows
are tied to the gpu more than the cpu
this would change if we dropped to a
sufficiently low end cpu like a 3100
especially if cross ccx latency becomes
a factor 4k
is the last for f1 2019 we're still
about 100 fps average at the top end of
what the 10600k is capable
of but like the 1440p result there's no
benefit to be had from our overclock
here
maybe if we also overclocked the memory
and the gpu but for the most part it's
a gpu upgrade or a serious gpu overclock
that would need to happen prior to
seeing a meaningful uplift
past 96 to 97 fps numbers for the
average red dead redemption 2 the
biggest pain in the ass the benchmark in
our suite is up next at 1080p and with
dx12
we've previously done vulcan tests with
red dead and have explained the
difference between vulcan and dx12 for
performance
so you can check our cpu methodology
piece for more of that information
at 1080p the 2080 ti maxes out at 128
fps average with lows improved
in the 10600k 5.1 gigahertz overclock
but the average overall is the same
further with some increased variability
and run to run consistency with red dead
that one percent low delta loses some of
its significance that it might have in
other titles
the current lead over the 5700 xt is
about 28
for the 2080 ti this game already poses
a heavy gpu bind
so even at 1080p frame rates are
natively somewhat restrictive
without dropping to ridiculously low
graphics settings anyway
if you're not seeking peak performance
at 1080p a 5700 xt or a 2070 super might
make sense
whereas a 2080 super would split the
middle give you more performance and
obviously
cost more but still not be bound by the
10600k
still a 2080 ti is almost completely
leveraged here
the cpu isn't as much of a concern
although an overclock on it
may help with bringing up the lows
marginally for a bit more consistency
at least until you hit those higher
resolutions at 1440p that bind becomes
more exaggerated our 10600k stock result
is not sufficiently different from the
overclock
and is within run to run variants so
they're functionally equal
the stock 10600k and 2080 ti lead the
5700 xt by 35 percent
so the delta has grown by seven
percentage points but
not seven percent to be clear because
stat math is funny
that said all the way down to the 2060
ko we're still seeing close to 60 fps
average with proportionally spaced one
percent
and 0.1 low values 4k knocks the results
down
hard with our stock 10 600k and 2080 ti
62fps average losing 39 of the frame
rate that it held at 1440p
that's a big trade-off for the
resolution hike but also not news to
anyone it also relegates you to the 2080
ti at these settings and this resolution
for red dead 2.
the cpu just isn't as important here
although it would certainly still have a
frame time impact
if you paired the 2080 ti with a 100 cpu
if your goal for gaming looks something
like this there's not any reason to
worry about becoming too limited by the
cpu
if you're buying something like a 10600k
or similar
further there's not much reason to
become overly concerned about a cpu
overclock
or spending a huge amount of money on
better memory the gpu bind is where the
money for the most part should be thrown
but that obviously becomes a bit more
nebulous if you're planning to do other
things with your system than just gaming
hitman 2 is last interesting because it
shows expressive cpu scaling in our cpu
reviews
the top of the chart is our overclocked
result which actually does improve in
this game
the 5700 xt 2070 super and 2080 ti
are all bound by the cpu at 1080p where
they end up equivalent because the
limitations imposed by the cpu stock
performance
restrict them to the same frame rate
these results are within variance in
other words if we re-ran them
over and over the ordering would change
slightly with each
set but they would all be functionally
equivalent overclocking the cpu gets it
to 138 fps average which allows an
improvement of about seven percent
without a memory tune
in this game and other games that are
similarly cpu intensive
we use heavy cpu simulation settings
most the time
you'll either want a higher end cpu or a
lower end gpu to avoid wasting money on
an unusable level of performance the
2060 super is
about the peak before hitting a cpu bind
with this particular set of settings and
this game 1440p
isn't much better the gpu bind is now
compressing the 5.1 gigahertz frame rate
to 133
but the 2080 ti with the stock 10 600k
runs lower so it's still cpu bound even
at 1440p
the 2080 ti does lead the 2070 super
here but
not enough to be warranted since we know
it's constrained the 2080 super might
make more sense as a high-end purchase
if coupling it with a 10-600k
and a similar game to this but anything
below it would also be fine and
unconstrained
at 4k the difference becomes more
meaningful but even still the cpu
overclock
grants us some meager performance
improvements there are more games out
there like this of course
and anyone focused on more competitive
titles with lower graphics quality or
higher frame rate focus
should instead defer to our cpu reviews
where that's the goal of those
benchmarks
wrapping all this up then the 2080 super
would be about where you can
kind of reasonably stop and get
something that
should be fully leveraged by the cpu
you're going to run into a gpu limit
there you're not going to be throwing
away
a portion of your gpu purchase because
the cpu is not powerful enough
in most applications now again
competitive high fps games that's a
different scenario we have other content
for that
but for someone who we think probably
most of the user
base likes to have generally higher
graphic settings even if you're
competitive
you might not be competitive enough to
want 240fps
and in that case 2080 super makes sense
2080 ti
in a lot of these games you do get full
scaling once you go up to 1440
4k especially you get pretty much full
scaling all the way
and the 10600 is zero limitation on it
now even at 1080
there's pretty full scaling and a lot of
them not all of them hitman 2 is a good
example and there are other games out
there like hitman 2 we can't reasonably
test all
games and because we did a matrix of
three resolutions per game
that's already a lot of tests across all
these cards and a couple different cpus
for the 8086k baseline so
in general 2080 super and lower for
most gaming scenarios will allow you
full utilization of the gpu we're not
saying buy a 2080 super
with the 10 600k we're not saying it
makes the most sense we're saying is
that below that point just don't even
worry about it don't worry about if
you're limiting your gpu with your cpu
because you're probably not going to be
in most scenarios
2080 ti is hard to justify already as we
said
in here in a lot of these games you may
be fully leveraged
for the 2080 ti's performance you might
be able to extract all of it
but you're also going to extract all the
money out of your bank account and be
financially leveraged
so just kind of depends on what your
financial situation is and
if you're doing that kind of pairing any
way you really need to be at the higher
resolutions
to fully utilize it and make sure you're
not out of cpu bind now that said at
some point you're gonna be bound on
something in cb or gpu so
you make a choice and then of course
finally if you want
any kind of workstation insight if
you're doing stuff other than gaming
check out our cpu reviews for that
because when you're trying to balance
how much you spent on each component if
it's outside of only gaming it gets a
little more complicated if it's only
gaming
then well 10 600k is a good cost-saving
measure to not
fully spend on a 10-9 and you can spend
the rest on gpu and that'll get you
pretty far
if you want to save more money still the
3600 and the 3300x are both good
contenders that aren't as high frame
rate they won't reach the same height so
the 10600k
but they'll get pretty damn close and
they're cheaper so you can check out our
coverage of those
for more information on that and the
bottlenecking 3300x content would be
where we'd point you next thanks for
watching to support this kind of content
you can go to store.gamertexas.net
and pick up one of our mouse mats on
backward we'll pop up some b-roll around
the screen
they are going to be available again
soon but we ran out within 48 hours for
our first run
you can also go to
patreon.comgamersnexus or you can just
subscribe
and watch more videos thanks for
watching we'll see you all next time
so